about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: About Me
---

# About Me

I'm a technologist, designer, and education researcher, currently studying in Northwestern University's [Computer Science + Learning Sciences](https://csls.sesp.northwestern.edu/) PhD program.

My research uses qualitative methods to explore gender equity and engineering/institutional culture through the narratives of engineering students. My Olin research group presented our work at the [IEEE Frontiers in Education Conference](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8658912) in 2018.

I studied Computer Science at [Olin College of Engineering](http://www.olin.edu/), where I helped found The Greenhouse, an in-house "institutional design studio" that experimented with institutional culture and held [some events.](https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/13/us/olin-college-fauxmencement-coronavirus-trnd/index.html) For my senior capstone design work, I helped pilot a program for affordable air quality home interventions in East Boston as part of [AirPartners](http://airpartners.org).

Commit message:

Adding grass model and rotation.

about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: About Me
---

# About Me

I'm a first-year PhD student in Northwestern University's [Computer Science + Learning Sciences](https://csls.sesp.northwestern.edu/) PhD program. I'm currently exploring new directions in my research, but previously I [researched](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8658912) how undergraduate engineering students narrate their experiences with gender in classroom and extracurricular interactions.

I received my B.S. in Engineering with Computing at [Olin College of Engineering](http://www.olin.edu/), but my work there spanned design, technology, and education research. After graduating, I spent a summer as a [Sketch Model](https://www.olin.edu/collaborate/sketch-model/) fellow, working with [Rhizome](https://rhizome.org/) on tools to make curating and exhibiting "born-digital" art easier and more transparent.

In my time at Olin, I also helped found The Greenhouse, an in-house "institutional design studio" that experimented with institutional culture and held [some fun events.](https://www.cnn.com/2020/03/13/us/olin-college-fauxmencement-coronavirus-trnd/index.html) For my senior capstone work, I helped pilot a [program](http://airpartners.org) to provide and advocate for affordable home air quality interventions in East Boston.
