---
layout: post
title:  "Hello world."
date:   2020-01-10 11:10:46 -0500
subject: education
noheader: true
categories: jekyll update
excerpt: Here's a random post about Jekyll.
---

The powers that be would have you believe that a sea change is underway. Thanks to their tireless efforts, a new cohort of young people are going to tap into an underutilized well of secret knowledge and rain economic prosperity among the townspeople. At least, that appears to be the idea put forth by the people behind the Iowa Governor's STEM Council, an organization that I probably care about more than is strictly necessary, or healthy. Why care about STEM in Iowa, a state that most of the country only thinks about for the 12 months or so leading up to the presidential caucus? It's probably necessary for me to disclose that I, as a person who went to high school in Iowa and once thought himself an engineer, I participated in a number of programs supported by the Council. But what I find interesting about Iowa STEM is how it is rewriting the Iowan view on education from the top down, in ways that are reflective of broader change underway, as I will get into.

Founded in 2011(?) through an executive order by then-Governor Terry Branstad, the Council (as I will refer to it by) exists to promote a set of rather nebulous goals to improve the STEM fluency and attitudes of the state's student population, and correspondingly its future workforce. The Council does through programs like the STEM Scale-Ups, whereby teachers can apply for funding toward various STEM-related pursuits such as buying 3D printers or starting a robotics team, and a bouquet of similar grant programs. 

Perhaps the most telling indicators of what the Council actually does can be found in its own documentation. Upon perusing one of the Council's annual "STEM Evaluation Reports," The most readily apparent transgression, and a repeated one, can be seen in its first few summary pages. The report points to a litany of measures as indicators of the program's success, including things like the number of people "very interested ... in pursuing a STEM career" or the number of people surveyed who have heard of the term "STEM." The report does point to some statistics such as an increasing number of students (particularly, the report is careful to point out, students who are African-American or Hispanic) receiving STEM degrees at community colleges or universities in Iowa, increasing enrollment in advanced placement STEM classes, and higher standardized test scores for students who participate in the Scale-Up programs--which, of course, presupposes that test scores are any sort of objective measurement of students' knowledge or predictor of performance (they aren't). The bigger issue is that while these data points may be promising, their lack of context makes them completely meaningless. Simply put, they fail to establish causation. STEM is trendy everywhere, so the ambient interest in STEM may be increasing regardless of the program, and the crushing pressure of the college admissions game makes students feel like they have to take more AP classes. The standardized test score tidbit, of course, could entirely be caused by students who are better at STEM subjects self-selecting into STEM opportunities. To show that the program has any meaningful impact would require contextualizing data about overall educational trends, or longitudinal studies examining students' trajectories before and after being a part of the Council's STEM programs. With only aggregate data to compare, pointing toward the source of any change is a guessing game.

This flimsy evidence of impact is bad, but a depressingly common sin among educational reforms of its kind. However, it's also symptomatic of a more abstract yet more consequential issue: that the people behind the Council seem incapable of articulating a cogent theory of change for their work. All the money pouring into the program has to be doing *something,* and it is: it's giving cold hard cash to primarily teachers, and as the report is quick to point out, it's providing resources that give teachers some amount of confidence boost. This in itself is worth celebrating, given the perpetual overworked, underpaid state of teachers. But how these resources will help students--and, critically, how helping students will lead to improvements more broadly--is never clearly said. To be fair, much of the Council's vision borrows its rhetoric from the prevailing national discourse, which claims that STEM is important and we need more STEM people for hand-wavey reasons (more on that later). This is all fair and good, and for the most part all STEM programs nationwide have been trudging forward under this model for the past decade with little resistance, but it has important consequences, both for the state of Iowa and for the students within it.   

~~

IOWA

The powers that be are broadly correct in thinking that STEM is important, because it doesn't take much to see how the fabric of our lives is being continually reshaped by tech. So it's natural to want in on the action, and the Council's STEM roadmap makes it explicit that they view STEM as vital to "ensur[ing] that Iowa is a key participant in the global workforce and global economy." The Council traffics in much of the same language used nationally, but economically speaking, Iowa is not the nation. For one, most of its high-profile interactions with Big Tech end up with the state government getting played for fools. The recurring story goes as such: a massive tech company approaches a "flyover state" (often one whose GDP is smaller than the company's revenue) and offers to build a data center there, dangling the prospect of bringing tech jobs, usually a depressingly small number of them, in exchange for a healthy tax cut. It's a less-high profile version of Amazon's HQ2 gambit; by subsidizing an Apple datacenter built in a Des Moines suburb, the state effectively paid $4.2 million *per job created.* And because Facebook got out of paying property taxes for 20 years in exchange for graciously building their datacenters there, an Iowa school district "lost" $900,000 overnight because Facebook's taxes were accidentally kept in the city budget. The image of astonishingly wealthy tech companies stealing from Iowa schools is illustrative, but perhaps no less exploitative than another collision between big tech and tech-unsavvy states. Programs such as __ in West Virginia purporting to bring a path toward high-paying tech jobs to coal miners have frequently been found to be filled with empty promises and lack of support; a similar program is underway in Iowa.

Of course, Iowa has plenty of companies that do provide large numbers of useful STEM jobs, but many of them are tied to more Iowa-familiar industries such as agritculture or manufacturing (there are a few brave, successful software companies staking it out in Iowa, who mostly make boring, innocuous things like business compliance software. What this means is that smaller, primarily rural states like Iowa should probably exercise caution with big tech rather than accepting it with open arms; they should stake out a position on STEM that more finely delineates what types of STEM the state is invested in, what it wants to be invested in, and where those companies should be coming from. Otherwise the state is opening itself up to further wanton exploitation in exchange for name-brand connections.

~~

Regardless any economic implications of its  program, the Council also presumably has some impact on students' learning experiencees--although, as mentioned above, there is little indication of what these changes should actually be. Yet such changes are also have profound impacts on the lives of K-12 students (and the teachers tasked with enacting such changes), particularly when such directives are handed out by a top-down coalition of state government and business interests. In the context of the state's [meager education budget increases](), [forcible passing of bills stripping public school teachers of collective bargaining rights](), and the governor's endorsement of "school choice" legislature that [siphons funding away from public schools](), claims of STEM's educational cure-all properties become dubious. Of course, the money devoted to the Council is only a fraction of the state education budget, but the governor's choices of causes to support do, to some extent, steer the state's education agenda.

The discourses employed by the Council do not deviate significantly from the national discourse around STEM, but this discourse is worth unpacking. The top-down emphasis on STEM as an economic panacea falls in line with what education scholar David Labaree would call a ___ model of education, in which education is positioned as a mechanism for molding students such that, upon graduation, they fit neatly into the empty slots in the economic structure; in this instance, the perceived empty slots are STEM jobs. 

In attempting to make STEM appealing to all parties, however, many discourses also subtly reframe education 

STUDENTS:
* Lack of funding for public schools, removing teachers' collective bargaining rights, etc.
* Neoliberal model of education--what would Labaree say? New vocationalism?
* Encroachment of corporations into public education, and degradation of public schools
* Is STEM even a good thing? Especially for students who are marginalized by it?

The annual report also mentions some amount of sponsorship coming from external sources such as corporations--it's unclear how much is corporate-funded vs. state-funded, but the majority seems to be coming from the state.

